= Contents =
    - [[#configuration|configuration]]
        - [[#configuration#options & variables|options & variables]]
        - [[#configuration#lines|lines]]
        - [[#configuration#tips&trics|tips&trics]]
            - [[#configuration#tips&trics#change cursor in different modes|change cursor in different modes]]
    - [[#plugins|plugins]]
        - [[#plugins#fugitive|fugitive]]
            - [[#plugins#fugitive#merge conflict|merge conflict]]
    - [[#usage|usage]]
        - [[#usage#editing|editing]]
            - [[#usage#editing#toggle case|toggle case]]
            - [[#usage#editing#ranges|ranges]]
            - [[#usage#editing#substitution|substitution]]
            - [[#usage#editing#tips&trics|tips&trics]]
                - [[#usage#editing#tips&trics#comment several lines|comment several lines]]
                - [[#usage#editing#tips&trics#save with sudo|save with sudo]]
        - [[#usage#macro|macro]]
            - [[#usage#macro#save recordered macro|save recordered macro]]
        - [[#usage#windows and panes|windows and panes]]
            - [[#usage#windows and panes#switch between horizontal and vertical splits|switch between horizontal and vertical splits]]

= configuration =

== options & variables ==
`:set` is for setting _options_
`:let` is for setting _variables_

== lines ==
- `set number` - show line numbers (1 2 3)
- `set relativenumber` - show line numbers relative to current line (3 2 1 0 1 2 3)
- `set number relativenamber` - combine both

== tips&trics ==
=== change cursor in different modes ===
{{{
  let &t_SI.="\e[5 q" "SI = INSERT mode
  let &t_SR.="\e[4 q" "SR = REPLACE mode
  let &t_EI.="\e[1 q" "EI = NORMAL mode (ELSE)

  "Cursor settings:

  "  1 -> blinking block
  "  2 -> solid block 
  "  3 -> blinking underscore
  "  4 -> solid underscore
  "  5 -> blinking vertical bar
  "  6 -> solid vertical bar
}}}

= plugins =

== fugitive ==

=== merge conflict ===
splits order::
- left (top) - *target branch* _aka master_ `2`
- middle - *working copy* with conflict markers `1`
- right (bottom) - *merge branch* _aka feature_ (the one specified in `git merge` command) `3`

| 2 | 1 | 3 |

commands::
* `:diffget` `dg` - get changes from buffer
* `:diffput` `dp` - put changes to buffer
* `diffupdate` - recalculate diff colors
* `Gwrite` - overwrite the working tree with active bufferA
* `[c` - previous hunk
* `]c` - next hunk

`:g/^function!\? \(s:\)\?My/;/^endfunction/s/^/" /`
:: e.g.
* `1` is active, `:diffget 2` will get changes from `2` into `1`
* `3` is active, `:diffput 1` will put changes from `3` into `1`

= usage =

== editing ==

=== toggle case ===
* toggle case **HellO** to **hELLo** with `g~` then a movement. 
* uppercase **HellO** to **HELLO** with `gU` then a movement. 
* lowercase **HellO** to **hello** with `gu` then a movement. 

Examples::
:: toggle case of the character under the cursor, or all visually-selected characters
`~`
:: toggle case of the next three characters
`3~`
:: toggle case of the next three words
`g~3w`
:: toggle case of the current word (inner word – cursor anywhere in word)
`g~iw`
:: toggle case of all characters to end of line
`g~$`
:: toggle case of the current line (same as V~)
`g~~`

=== ranges ===
| `N`     | line number N                               | `:21s/foo/bar/g`      |
| `$`     | last line                                   | `:$s/foo/bar/g`       |
| `.`     | current line                                | `:.w single_line.txt` |
| `%`     | all lines                                   | `:%s/foo/bar/g`       |
| `N,M`   | line range                                  | `:21,25d`             |
| `.,$`   | from current to the end                     | `:.,$s/foo/bar/g`     |
| `.+1,$` | from line _after_ current to the end        | `:.+1,$s/foo/bar/g`   |
| `.,.+5` | 6 lines: from current to +5 inclusive       | `:.,.+5s/foo/bar/g`   |
| `'<,'>` | last selected lines (inserts automatically) | `:'<,'>s/foo/bar/g`   |

=== substitution ===
combine **search range** with **substitution**::
:: copy the lines from the current line to the next line containing 'green' (inclusive), to the end of the buffer. 
`:.,/green/co $`
:: replace all `old` in the next line in which the `apples` occurs, and the line following it. 
`:/apples/,/apples/+1s/old/new/g`
:: same (.1 is .+1, and because ; was used, the cursor position is set to the line matching `apples` before interpreting the .+1). 
`:/apples/;.1s/old/new/g`
:: replace all `old` in the next line in which `apples` occurs, and all lines up to and including 100 lines after the current line (where the command was entered). 
`:/apples/,.100s/old/new/g`

::  Replace all `old` in the first block that starts with `apples` and ends with `peaches`. 
    `/apples/` identifies the first line after the cursor containing `apples`. 
    `/peaches/` is similar (first line after the current line, not the first after `apples`). Be aware of backwards ranges. 
    The block is all lines from `apples` to `peaches`, inclusive. 
`:/apples/,/peaches/ s/old/new/g`
:: Same, but `peaches` identifies the first occurrence after `apples`. 
`:/apples/;/peaches/ s/old/new/g`
:: Insert `# ` at the start of each line in the first block. 
`:/apples/,/peaches/ s/^/# /g`
:: Insert `# ` at the start of each line inside the block. 

To do a global replace in all blocks with the same patterns, use :g: ::

`:/apples/+1,/peaches/-1 s/^/# /g`
::  Insert `# ` at the start of each line in all identified blocks. 
    :g/apples/ identifies each line containing `apples`. 
    In each such line, .,/peaches/ s/^/# /g is executed 
    (the . is assumed; it means the current line, where `apples` occurs). 
`:g/apples/,/peaches/ s/^/# /g`
::  This example is for a Vim script where functions start with function or function! and end with endfunction. 
    Insert `` ` at the start of each line in each block. 
    All functions that start with function My or function s:My will be commented out. 
    The last line in each block is where endfunction first occurs (at the left margin), after where function My is found. 

| Item        | Description                                                    |
| `/pattern/` | next line where pattern matches                                |
| `?pattern?` | previous line where pattern matches                            |
| `\/`        | next line where the previously used search pattern matches     |
| `\?`        | previous line where the previously used search pattern matches |
| `\&`        | next line where the previously used substitute pattern matches |
| `0;/that`   | first line containing `that` (also matches in the first line)  |
| `1;/that`   | first line after line 1 containing `that`                      |

=== tips&trics ===
==== comment several lines ====
- `C-v` (visual block selection)
- select lines with arrow keys
- `I` (insert to the beginning of the line)
- insert comment character (for example `#`)

==== save with sudo ====
`:w !sudo tee %`

== macro ==
=== save recordered macro ===
macro are saved into named registers, so they can be simply pasted as common string (be careful with quotes, they should be escaped)
add to config: `let @MACRO_LETTER = 'PASTE_MACRO_HERE'`

== windows and panes ==
=== switch between horizontal and vertical splits ===
`C-w` + `J` - vertical -> horizontal
`C-w` + `H` or `L` - horizontal -> vertical
