= Contents =
    - [[#interfaces|interfaces]]
        - [[#interfaces#TUN/TAP|TUN/TAP]]
        - [[#interfaces#Predictable interfaces names|Predictable interfaces names]]
    - [[#configuration|configuration]]
        - [[#configuration#hostname|hostname]]
        - [[#configuration#interfaces|interfaces]]
            - [[#configuration#interfaces#system V|system V]]
            - [[#configuration#interfaces#systemd|systemd]]
        - [[#configuration#firewall|firewall]]
        - [[#configuration#DNS resolving|DNS resolving]]
        - [[#configuration#ip address aliasing|ip address aliasing]]
        - [[#configuration#wireless|wireless]]
            - [[#configuration#wireless#wpa_supplicant|wpa_supplicant]]
        - [[#configuration#tips & trics|tips & trics]]

= interfaces =

== TUN/TAP ==
overview:: both of them are virtual network kernel interfaces

TUN:: devices work at the _IP level_ or _layer 3_ level of the network stack and are usually point-to-point connections. A typical use for a TUN device is establishing VPN connections since it gives the VPN software a chance to encrypt the data before it gets put on the wire. Since a *TUN* device works at _layer 3_ it can only accept IP packets and in some cases only IPv4. Additionally because TUN devices work at layer 3 they can’t be used in bridges and don’t typically support broadcasting.
TAP Interfaces

TAP:: devices work at the _Ethernet level_ or _layer 2_ and therefore behave like a real network adaptor. Since they are running at _layer 2_ they can transport any _layer 3_ protocol and aren’t limited to point-to-point connections. *TAP* devices can be part of a bridge and are commonly used in virtualization systems to provide virtual network adaptors to multiple guest machines. Since *TAP* devices work at _layer 2_ they will forward broadcast traffic which normally makes them a poor choice for VPN connections as the VPN link is typically much narrower than a LAN network (and usually more expensive). But VPN clients using *TAP* interfaces will be in the same subnet and therefor no additional routing is needed (VPN acts as ethernet switch).

== Predictable interfaces names ==
* onboard devices (BIOS/Firmware) `enoX`
* PCI Express (BIOS/Firmware) `ensX`
* connected hardware (physical/geographical location) `enpXsY`
* MAC address `enxNNNNNNNNNNNN`
* unpredictable naming `ethX`

= configuration =
== hostname ==
`echo <hostname> > /etc/hostname`
`hostname -F /etc/hostname`
for static configurations add to `/etc/hosts`
`<static ip>   hostname.domain.com`

== interfaces ==
=== system V ===
`/etc/networking/interfaces`
{{{
   auto <interface>
   iface <interface> inet loopback|dhcp|manual|static
   ***
}}}
_***_ additional rules are allowed e.g. `up ip route add default via <address>`
in case of `static`
{{{
   iface <interface> inet static
       address <address>
       netmask <netmask>
       gateway <gateway>
}}}
=== systemd ===
use `systemd` units
`/etc/systemd/network/20-<name>.network`
{{{
    [Match]
    Name=<interface>

    [Network]
    DHCP=ipv4
    <or>
    Address=<addresss>/<mask>
    Gateway=<gateway>
}}}
enable & start unit with `systemctl enable|start 20-<name>`
   
== firewall ==
use [[iptables#Contents|iptables]]

== DNS resolving ==
`/etc/resolv.conf`
`nameserver X.X.X.X`

== ip address aliasing ==
CentOS::
  :: `/etc/sysconfig/network-scripts`
  :: `cp ifcfg-ethX icfg-ethX:N`
  
  :: necessary fields in alias interface are:
  {{{
  DEVICE="ethX:N"
  BOOTPROTO=static
  ONBOOT=yes
  IPADDR=...
  NETMASK=...
  GATEWAY=...
  }}}
  :: `/etc/init.d/network restart`

== wireless ==
=== wpa_supplicant ===
* create initial config
`/etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf`
{{{
    ctrl_interface=/run/wpa_supplicant
    update_config=1
}}}
* start `wpa_supplicant`
`wpa_supplicant -B -i <interface> -c /etc/wpa_supplicant/wpa_supplicant.conf`
* run `wpa_cli -i <interface>`
    * `scan`
    * `scan_results`
    * `add_network`
    * `set_network <id> ssid "<SSID>"`
    * `set_network <id> psk "<passphrase>"`
    * `enable_network <id>`
    * `save_config`
    * `quit`
* enable `wpa_supplicant.service`

for encrypted passphrase `wpa_passphrase <SSID> <passphrase>` can be used to obtain configuration


== tips & trics ==
show process which is listening target port
* `lsof -i :PORT`
* `netstat -ltnp | grep -w ':PORT'`
